# CMPE458
Repository for CMPE 458

# Repo Organization
ptsrc/ contains the contents of the tarball (`tar xvf /cas/course/cisc458/pt23/pt23-student.tar.gz`)

ptsrc-ref/ is the same extraction, is included to be just a reference of the original state of the files.

# Running Pascal
To run the local library ( created at ptsrc/lib/pt), you must specify it with the `ptc` command:

```
ptc -L ptsrc/lib/pt <source file>
```

You can also add it as an alias to your bash profile, and can then use the command `ptccl` instead of `ptc`.

```
alias ptccl='ptc -L ptsrc/lib/pt'
```

If adding as an alias, remember to use full location.

To load the alias, you must run:

```
source ~/.bash_profile
```

which can be run automatically by adding it to your ~/.bashrc file.

## Building Compiler
You can rebuild the compiler by running:

```
make clean
make scanner
```

Where `scanner` can be replaced with whatever make tag.

# Scripts ( /scripts )
## scantrace
Implements the scanner trace command:

```bash
ssltrace "ptc -o1 -t1 -L lib/pt $1" lib/pt/scan.def $2
```

Where:
- `$1` is the test file to pass in (was `test.pt` in the tutorial docs).
- `$2` (optional) is the tracing flag ( `-i` for input tokens, `-e` for output tokens)

# parser_def_paster
Handles the pasting of the scan.def and parser.def content into parser/parser.pt (Tutorial 2 Page 4)

Run it with:

```
python parser_def_paster.py
```

Note: You should first make the scanner (`make scanner`) and then run the paste script. You can verify everything is pasted correctly by making the scanner again (it should not give any errors this time).

## Using semtrace and ptsemtrace
These are the designed ssltrace script for semantic section. `ptsemtrace` is the ssltrace for the Pascal compiler (using build/ptsrc/lib/pt). `semtrace` is the ssltrace for the Quby compiler (using ptsrc/lib/pt).

You can use `ptsemtrace` to see the generated t-codes for the pascal compiler, and then use `semtrace` for the generated t-codes on Quby.

Both scripts also support the `-ge` flag, which when used will grep the output for errors. This can be used to verify that the output generated by the trace is correct. The `-a` flag will print the entire ssltrace, instead of filtering the tcodes and output tokens

```bash
# use -ge to check for errors, if any errors are found it will be printed
# uses grep so just prints the matching line
semtrace test.pt -ge

# use -a to see entire trace, to get more context on an error
semtrace test.pt -a

# both scripts also support the standard -i and -o flags of ssltrace
```